# Athlets Backend
A basic, lightweight Spring Boot backend service. This basic backend was generated by springboot.

## Tech Stack
* **Java:** 21
* **Framework:** Spring Boot
* **Build Tool:** Maven

## Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed on your local machine:
* [Java 21 SDK](https://adoptium.net/)
* Maven
* Docker
* Docker compose

## Getting Started

### 1. Clone the repository

Clone the repo and then head into it.
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd <project-directory>
```

### 2. Install dependencies

From the root, run this to make sure all the dependencies are downloaded from the pom.xml

```bash
mvn clean install
```

> Run everytime the pom.xml file is modified

### 3. Create a .env

Copy the .env.example file in the root folder and rename it to .env.
Fill out the empty fields according to the values given to you by the admin. Empty for now, but will be filled as the project develops.

### 4. Run the project

Run the springboot project, which will start springboot on port 8080.
```bash
mvn spring-boot:run
```

### 5. Format project

Before creating your merge requests, make sure to run the following command to format the code properly:
```bash
mvn spotless:apply
```

## PostgreSQL Database

Every time springboot is booted, it creates a new docker container from a postgresql image. We can then procede to seed it to mock the function of the backend while waiting for an actual database, and to avoid modifying production data.

NEVER use production data when running the code locally. Same thing for the tests.

In order to view the database, download dBeaver, and create a new connection with a postgresql database.

Then, enter the following credentials for dev:
```bash
url: jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/athlete_tracker
username: dev_user
password: dev_password
```

> Note that all the data gets deleted the instant you shut down docker, so all saves are temporary. To modify it permanently, modify the data.sql file.

## Documentation

An auto-generated swagger is available to consult the different api calls available. They can be viewed here: http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html#/

!!! Before testing any route, you must authenticate yourself with the route api/auth/login

## Unit tests

To run all unit tests, you can run
```bash
mvn clean test
```